
#  Extra Events Regulations
`Extra Events` - events that are not currently held by the WCA.  
The organization of these events is based on the [`WCA Regulations`](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/regulations/) and [`Extra Events Regulations`](https://extraevents.org/regulations).

<table-of-contents>

##  Article 1: Definitions

- 1a) `Extra Events Team` - team of the organization `Extra Events`.
- 1b) `Extra Events Organizer` - the person responsible for ensuring that the competition adheres to the `Regulations for Extra Events`.
- 1c) `Extra Events Leaders` - leaders of the organization `Extra Events`, contact email <leaders@extraevents.org>.
- 1d) `Extra Events website` -  [extraevents.org](https://www.extraevents.org)
- 1e) WCA definitions
  - 1e1) `WCA Delegate` - role in WCA organization. 
  - 1e2) `WCA Organizer` - organizer of the WCA competition.
  - 1e3) `WCA website`  - [worldcubeassociation.org](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org)
  - 1e4) `WCA ID`  - person id on the `WCA website`.

## Article 2: Substitution

- 2a) Substitution `WCA Regilations`:
    - 2a1) `WCA Delegate` is replaced by `Extra Events Organizer` in all `WCA Regilations`

## Article 3: Qualification
- 3a) Member `Extra Events Team` may request a new extra event to be introduced, but only if it can be shown to have value in speedcubing and if it will be held immediately at at least one upcoming competition.
  - 3a1) Each extra event must either have a description or a summary of its differences from an existing WCA event that is similar in nature.
  - 3a2) For extra events, only the "time" result format is used.
  - 3ac) The result of a competitor/team must not be dependent on other competitors/teams.
- 3b) New extra events are to be discussed by `Delegates of Extra Events`. The final decision is made by the `Extra Events Leaders`.
  - 3b1) Scrambles for each extra event are generated by WCA software (e.g. TNoodle) or `Extra Events Website` .

##  Article 4: Organization

- 4a) The `Extra Events Organizer` has the duty to be present when extra events are held.
- 4b) A member `Extra Events Team` or `WCA delegate` can be a `Extra Events Organizer`.
- 4c) The `WCA organizer` sends a request for an extra event (events) and who will be the `Extra Events Organizer` to `Extra Events Leaders`.
- 4d) Requirements for the opening of registration on extra events:
  - 4d1) Extra events can be included in the schedule on the `WCA website` in the following format: "{time} Extra Event: {event name}" . (e.g. [Sariki in Moscow 2020](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/competitions/SarikiInMoscow2020#competition-schedule)).
  - 4d2) The competition information on the `WCA website` must be an "Extra Events" section  with information about extra events and links to the registration page on extraevents.org (e.g. [NIS Aktobe Cube Days 2020](https://www.worldcubeassociation.org/competitions/NISAktobeCubeDays2020#13239-extra-events)).
- 4e) Within two weeks, the `Extra Events Organizer` must send a report `Extra Events Leaders` about the competition.
 
##   Article 5: Registration

- 5a) The competitor registers himself/herself on the `Extra Events website`.  
    - 5a1) No one except the competitor can register it.
    - 5a1) No one except the competitor can cancel his registration.
- 5b) Registration сonditions for extra events:
    - 5a1) The competitor sign in `Extra Events website` with `WCA website` authorization.
    - 5b2) Conditions on the `WCA website`:
        - 5b2a) The competitor must have a `WCA ID`.
        - 5b2b) The competitor must already be registered to the same competition.
    - 5b3) Conditions on the `Extra Events website`:
        - 5b3a) Registration on extra events should not be finished yet.
        - 5b3b) The competitors limit has not been reached.

##   Article A: Simple events

###  A1: Introduction
- A1a) Extra events that differ from WCA events by the puzzle used.
- A1b) Regulations applies to all simple events:
   - A1b1) The logo must be placed on a center piece.  Exceptions for puzzles that do not have center pieces: the logo may be on any piece.

### A2: 2x2x3 Tower
- A2a) Regulations based on `3x3x3 Cube`.
- A2b) Acceptable misalignment for puzzle:
    - A2b1) At most 45 degrees for 2x2 sides.
    - A2b2) At most 90 degrees for 2x3 sides.

### A3: 3x3x2 Domino Cube
- A3a)  Regulations based on  `3x3x3 Cube`.
- A3b) Acceptable misalignment for puzzle:
  - A3b1) At most 45 degrees for 3x3 sides.
  - A3b2) At most 90 degrees for 2x3 sides.

### A4: 3x3x3 With Feet
- A4a)  Regulations based on `3x3x3 Cube`.
- A4b)  During the attempt, the competitor must sit in a chair, sit on the surface, or stand.   
- A4c)   During the solve, the competitor must use only their feet and the surface to operate the puzzle. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF).
- A4d)  Starting the solve:
    - A4d1)  The competitor places their feet onto the timer sensors.
    - A4d2) The competitor removes their feet from the timer sensors to start the solve.       
 - A4d) The competitor stops the timer by placing their feet onto the timer sensors.

### A5: 3x3x3 With Oven Mitts
- A5a) Regulations based on `3x3x3 Cube`.
- A5b)  During the solve, the competitor must use only oven mitts and the surface to operate the puzzle. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF).  
  - A5b1)  If other body parts of the competitor come in contact with the puzzle or parts of the puzzle without the competitor's intention and without applying moves, this is not considered operating the puzzle, at the discretion of the judge.
- A5c)  Starting the solve:
  - A5c1)  The competitor places their bare fingers onto the timer sensors.
  - A5c2)  The competitor must have no physical contact with the oven mitts while starting the solve. Penalty: time penalty (+2 seconds).
  - A5c3)  The oven mitts must not touch the timer before starting the timer. Penalty: time penalty (+2 seconds).
  - A5c4)  The competitor removes their hands from the timer sensors and then puts the oven mitts on to start the solve.
- A5d) Stopping the solve:
  - A5d1) The competitor stops the timer by taking the oven mitts off and placing their bare hands onto the timer sensors. Penalty for stopping with oven mitts: time penalty (+2 seconds).

### A6: Mirror Blocks
- A6a)  Regulations based on `3x3x3 Cube`.
- A6b)   Legality of the puzzle:
  - A6b1)    The puzzle must not have a logo.
  - A6b2)   All sides of the puzzle must be clearly identifiable from each other (i.e. have distinct thicknesses on each side).    
  - A6b3)   All stickers / pieces of the puzzle must be the same color with no way of distinguishing one color from another.      
- A6c)   Scrambling procedures:
  - A6c1)   The scrambler holds the cube with the biggest corner in the up-front-left position and the thickest layer as the up face. 

### A7: 3x3x3 Team-Blind
 - A7a)  Regulations based on  `3x3x3 Cube`.
 - A7b) This is a team event, there are 2 members in a team.
 - A7c)  Before the attempt, the competitors decide who will solve the puzzle (solver) and who will instruct them (caller).
   - A7c1)   They must tell the judge who does what before each attempt.
 - A7d)  The solver puts on a blindfold before inspection and doesn't remove it until the end of the solve (the timer is stopped). Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF).
 - A7e)  Unlike `3x3x3 Blindfold` event, no sight blockers will be placed between the solver and the cube. Because of this, the solver should place the cube so that the blindfold is clearly obstructing the line of sight. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF). 
   - A7e1)   The `Extra Events Organizer` may disqualify an attempt for any suspected activity.
 - A7f) Both competitors may touch the cube during inspection.    
 - A7g) After the solver starts the timer, only the solver may touch the cube and the timer. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF).
 - A7h) Physical contact between the competitors is not allowed. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF). Exception: If no physically suggestive actions have been applied (+2 seconds) may be assigned instead, at the discretion of the judge.
   - A7h1)   If more than one physical contact between the competitors happened penalty is only disqualification of the attempt (DNF).
 - A7j)  Both competitors may talk at any time.

### A8: 2x2x2 Pyramorphix
- A8a)  Regulations based on `2x2x2 Cube`.

### A9: Master Pyraminx
- A9a)  Regulations based on `Pyraminx`.

### A10: Curvy Copter
- A10a)  Regulations based on `Skewb`.

### A11: Dino Cube
- A11a)  Regulations based on `Skewb`.

### A12: Face-Turning Octahedron
- A12a)  Regulations based on `Skewb`.

### A13: Ivy Cube
- A13a)  Regulations based on `Skewb`.
- A13b) [Replaces A0] A puzzle may have a logo(s) on a colored part. 
  - A13b1) If it does, it must have at most two colored part with a logo. 
  - A13b2) If there is one logo, it must be placed on a center piece.
  - A13b3) If there are two logos, it must be placed on a two corner pieces of one side. 
   - A13b4) One logo on the center and one on the corner at the same time are not allowed.

### A14: Redi Cube
- A14a) Regulations based on  `Skewb`.

### A15: Kilominx
- A15a) Regulations based on  `Megaminx`.
- A15b) Kilominx has no centers.
- A15c) If the puzzle state is wrong after scrambling, It is necessary to correct the puzzle state.

### A16: 3x3x3 Blindfolded One-Handed
- A16a) Regulations based on  `3x3x3 Blindfolded` and `3x3x3 One-Handed`

### A17: 4x4x4 One-Handed
- A17a) Regulations based on  `3x3x3 One-Handed` and `4x4x4 Cube` .

### A18: 4x4x4 With Feet
- A18a) Regulations based on `3x3x3 With Feet` and `4x4x4 Cube`.

### A19: 8x8x8 Cube
- A19a) Regulations based on  `7x7x7 Cube`.

### A20: 9x9x9 Cube
- A20a) Regulations based on  `7x7x7 Cube`.
    
##  Article B: Changed events

###  B1: Introduction
- B1a) Extra events that differ from WCA events by  procedures and/or used the puzzle.

### B2: 3x3x3 Bets
 - B2a) Regulations based on `3x3x3`.
 - B2b) Before the attempt the competitor writes a time on their scorecard.
 - B2c) The judge confirms the time written.
 - B2d) Recording the result:
   - B2d1)  If the competitor receives a result lower or equal to the time they wrote on the scorecard before the attempt, their result is equal to the time they wrote down. The judge writes a check mark (V) next to the time on the scorecard.
   - B2d2)  If the competitor receives a result higher than the time they wrote, their result is DNF. The judge writes a cross (X) next to the time on the scorecard.
 - B2e) Examples:
   - B2e1)  Attempt 1: the competitor writes "20.00", the competitor finishes with a time of 20.05 — the result is DNF. The scorecard reads "20.00 / X".
   - B2e2)  Attempt 2: the competitor writes "21.00", the competitor finishes with a time of 17.20 — the result is 21.00. The scorecard reads "21.00 / V".
   - B2e3)  Attempt 3: the competitor writes "19.00", the competitor finishes with a time of 19.00 — the result is 19.00. The scorecard reads "19.00 / V".
   - B2e4)  Summary: DNF, 21.00, 19.00 — Best solve is 19.00.

### B3: 3x3x3 Rescramble
 - B3a) Regulations based on `3x3x3`.
 - B3b) Two cubes given: one scrambled, one solved.
 - B3c)  Goal: match the scramble on solved cube.
 - B3d) Competitor can touch bouth cubes. Can't turn scrambled.

### B4: Mirror Blocks Blindfolded
- B4a) Regulations based on `Mirror Blocks` and `3x3x3 Blindfolded`.
- B4b)  Solving procedures:
  - B4b1) There is no memorization phase.
  - B4b2) The competitor dons the blindfold before the start of the attempt. 
  - B4b3) While blindfolded the competitor starts the timer following WCA Regulations, removes the cover from the cube and begins their attempt.
 - B4b4) The blindfold must remain donned for the duration of the whole attempt.
 
## Article C: Multiple puzzles

###  C1: Introduction
- C1a) Extra events that main goal of a competitor is to solve multiple puzzles.
- C1b) Time penalties for the puzzles of the attempt are cumulative.
- C1c) The competitor is allotted a maximum of 20 seconds to inspect the puzzle and start the solve.
  - C1c1) When 10 seconds of inspection have elapsed, the judge calls "10 SECONDS".
  - C1c2)  When 17 seconds of inspection have elapsed, the judge calls "17 SECONDS".
  - C1c3) The competitor must start the solve within 20 seconds of the start of the inspection. Penalty: time penalty (+3 seconds).
  - C1c4) The competitor must start the solve within 23 seconds of the start of the inspection. Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF).

### C2: 1-Man Mini Guildford Challenge
- C2a) Set of puzzles: `3x3x3 Cube`; `2x2x2 Cube`; `4x4x4 Cube`; `5x5x5 Cube`; `3x3x3 OH`; `Clock`; `Megaminx`; `Pyraminx`; `Skewb`; `Square-1`.

### C3: 2-Man Mini Guildford Challenge
- C3a) Set of puzzles similar to the event `1-Man Mini Guildford Challenge`.
- C3b) This is a team event, there are 2 members in a team.
- C3c) Competitors starts solve after timer starts.
- C3d) Only the last solver can stop the timer.
- C3e) If one competitor touched unsolved puzzle then no-one else can touch it before it solved.  
  - C3e1) Penalty: disqualification of the attempt (DNF). Exception: If no moves have been applied, a time penalty (+2 seconds) may be assigned instead, at the discretion of the judge.

### C4: 3-Man Mini Guildford Challenge
- C4a) Regulations based on `2-Man Mini Guildford Challenge`.
- C4b) This is a team event, there are 3 members in a team.

### C5: 2x2x2-4x4x4 Relay
- C5a) Set of puzzles: `2x2x2 Cube`,`3x3x3 Cube`,`4x4x4 Cube`.

### C6: 2x2x2-7x7x7 Relay
- C6a) Set of puzzles: `2x2x2 Cube`,`3x3x3 Cube`,`4x4x4 Cube`,`5x5x5 Cube`,`6x6x6 Cube`,`7x7x7 Cube`.

### C7: Ten 3x3x3 Cubes
- C7a) Set of puzzles:  `3x3x3 Cube` x 10.

##  Article D:  Scrambling

###  D1: Introduction
- D1a) Extra events in which the goal is to get a scrambled puzzle.
- D1b)  Judge has a paper with a "clean" side and with side with scramble.
- D1c)  Judge puts paper scramble-side up and starts the stopwatch.
- D1d)  Competitor has 15 seconds to inspect scramble.
  - D1d1)  Competitor can touch this paper and cube.
- D1e)  Competitor starts timer and scrambles the puzzle.
- D1f)  After competitor stops timer, the judge must verify that the puzzle is scrambled correctly.
  - D1f1)   If one or more moves are required to bring the puzzle to its scrambled state, the result of the attempt is a DNF.

###  D2: 3x3x3 Scrambling
- D2a) Scrambling a puzzle from the event `3x3x3 Cube`.

###  D3: Clock Scrambling
- D3a) Scrambling a puzzle from the event `Clock`.
- D3b)  After competitor stops timer, the judge must verify that the clock is scrambled correctly (including pins).

##   Article N:  No regulations

###  N1: Introduction
- N1a) There are no regulations for such events.
- N1b) Before conducting the event the regulations must be described.

###  N2: 15-Puzzle
- N2a)  Target article "Article A: Simple events"

###  N3: Siamese Cubes 1x1x3
- N3a)  Target article "Article A: Simple events"
- N3b)  Regulations based on `3x3x3 Cube`.

---

>  Sapienti Sat |  Lex Parsimoniae | Don't Repeat Yourself | 
